# Webpack

## Learning Objectives
   - How to setup Webpack for a basic project
   - Entry points, output, and loaders
   - How to add plugins
   - How to split your code into chunks
   - How to setup a dev server

## Tasks :page_with_curl:
### [0. Basic setup](./task_0)
Create and run Webpack using a basic installation.

   - Create a folder named task_0.
   - Install webpack and webpack-cli as developer dependencies within the folder using npm.
   - Install jQuery as a regular dependency using npm.
   - Make sure that webpack and webpack-cli are listed under the devDependencies key along with jQuery being listed under the dependencies key within the package.json
   - Create a src directory with a index.js in it.
   - The file should import jquery and add three different paragraphs to the page body: (refer to this link under the Babel section for importing jQuery)

Holberton Dashboard

Dashboard data for the students

Copyright - Holberton School

  - Create a dist/index.html. Import your main.js in the body.
  - You must use jQuery to add the elements to the body of the page.
  - When running Webpack, your javascript and html files should be generated in a dist folder.
  - You should not use a custom webpack config file.
  - Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
  - Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack).
  - Do NOT push your dist/main.js if you have one.

### [1. Learning how to use Webpack with a config file ](./taks_1)
Installing packages

  -  Create a folder named task_1, cd into it, and create a package.json using npm init -y
  -  Install webpack (dev dependency), jQuery (dependency), and Lodash (dependency) within the folder using npm.
  -  Modify your package.json to add a build script that runs webpack to create a production build. This lets you execute npm run build on the command line.

Using jQuery

  - Create a js directory with a javascript file named dashboard_main.js in it. The file should import jquery and add the below elements in the following order:
       - Paragraph element: Holberton Dashboard
       - Paragraph element: Dashboard data for the students
       - Button element with the text Click here to get started
       - Add a paragraph element as so <p id='count'></p>
       - Add another paragraph: Copyright - Holberton School

Prevent spammers

   - Write a function called updateCounter() that tracks the number of times the button element has been clicked.
   - Each time it’s called, update the count by 1 and set the content of the paragraph element with id=‘count’ to {count} clicks on the button
   - Bind the debounce function in Lodash to the click event on the button you created previously.

Requirements:

   - When running Webpack, your javascript should be generated in a public folder. You should also place your index.html in this folder.
   - The javascript file generated by Webpack should be named bundle.js
   - Set Webpack config mode to production
   - Opening your html file should not generate any error in the console
   - Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack)

### [2. Adding CSS & Images ](./task_2)
Create a specific configuration for Webpack.

  -  Using the folder named task_2.
  -  Reuse the code from task_1.
  -  Modify the webpack config to support adding CSS to the bundle.
  -  Modify the webpack config to support adding images to the CSS.
  -  Create a folder named css
  -  In a file named main.css, change the position of the counter text to be displayed on the right of the button and in bold.
  -  Add an element at the top of document with the id #logo which has a width of 200px and height of 200px.
  -  Set the background of th element with the image in task_2/assets/holberton-logo.jpg.
  -  Set the width and height of the logo background image to 200px by 200px.
  -  Make sure to configure Webpack to optimize images.
  -  When running Webpack, your javascript and html files should be generated in a public folder.
  -  The javascript file generated by Webpack should be named bundle.js.
  -  Set Webpack config mode to production.
  -  Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
  -  Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack).
  -  When running Webpack, you should not see the warning WARNING in asset size limit: The following asset(s) exceed the recommended size limit

### [3. Dev servers, modules, and tree shaking](./task_3)
Using the folder named task_3. Set up a development server:

  -  Reuse the code from task_2.
  -  Modify the Webpack config to setup a development server running on the port 8564.
  -  Modify the Webpack config to set its mode to development.
  -  Add a script in the package.json to start the server and open the browser with npm run start-dev.

Divide the code into modules:

  -  Divide the main bundle into three modules.
  -  header should contain a header.css and header.js files.
  -  Import jQuery, and add the logo and the H1 title to the header.js file. Add a console.log printing Init header.
  -  Add the needed style to the header.css file.
  -  body should contain a body.css and body.js files.
  -  Import jQuery, Lodash and add the body code (button, counter) in the body.js file.
  -  Add the needed style to the body.css file.
  -  footer should contain a footer.css and footer.js files.
  -  Import jQuery, and append a paragraph the copyright text Copyright - Holberton School.
  -  Add the needed style to the footer.css file.
  -  Modify the Webpack configuration to support three different entry points (header, body, footer). Each entry point should generate a filename with the following format name_of_the_file.bundle.js.
  -  Do NOT have a task_3/public/ directory pushed to your repository.
  -  Add a plugin to Webpack to automatically create an index.html HTML file

Improve development speed

  -  Modify the webpack config to support inline source mapping.
  -  Check that the console.log in the header.js now takes you to your javascript file instead of the main bundle.
  -  Add a plugin to Webpack to clean your build folder on each build.


Improve bundles size:

  -  You can see that the current modules generated with npm run build are quite large. They all contain jQuery and/or Lodash. Modify the Webpack configuration to split the modules in chunks.

Requirements:

  -  When running the dev server, your code should work on http://localhost:8564/.
  -  When running Webpack, your javascript and html files should be generated in a public folder.
  -  Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
